days, five days at the most because we had to be back for basketball practice.
And I do remember hitchhiking back from Abilene so I could be back in time to resume the basketball practice.
Describe hitchhiking as an Aggie.
Well, that's something I have a lot of experience with.
That's the way we got around, and it was easy, really.
Never had a really bad experience hitchhiking, and I wouldn't know how many miles or how many times I hitchhiked, but it was a lot.
Normally the route from here to Abilene or vice versa, how did you go?
Well, I didn't hitchhike to Abilene many times.
Now that was a pretty far trek to hitchhike.
Mostly I went to Dallas or
My wife Evelyn, she was from a little town of Hamilton, which is about 60 miles west of Waco.
But hitchhiking from College Station to Waco was easy.
Where did you go to catch the first ride from here?
Physically, where?
Well, it was up on, you know, I'm trying to think.
There was pretty much a standard place we went.
I'm trying to picture exactly where that was.
It was over on Highway 6 somewhere, but it seemed like it was.
It's not too far, but I can't remember exactly.
I know going to Houston, it was the southwest corner at Eastgate.
Right.
But I don't know about going north.
It was on up the way there.
It wasn't far.
I know that.
It wasn't, you know, we sometimes could get somebody to take us up there to where we, we all hitchhiked, you know, we had the same place.
And you stood in line there and you always wore your uniform.
Always wore the uniform and have a little bag or something at TAM on it.
But no sign.
No, no sign.
We might have a little TAM bag or something, but I don't ever remember having a sign or anything.
But you waited your turn to be number one and, you know, only one person.
They told us early on, now, you know, you don't all stand out there and do this.
You know, there's one person standing at the front of the line that's doing the hitchhiking.
And some car stops and he says, I'm going to Calvert.
And the first guy says, I'll take that.
Or no, I think I'll wait.
I'm trying to get to Dallas.
So the next guy falls down the way there for people to accept or reject it.
But it always worked, and people were very happy to pick us up.
And usually we didn't have to wait too long.
And I said I never had a bad experience.
Give some examples of plus and minus experiences.
A couple of negative kind of experiences.
I remember catching a ride, I was going up to Hamilton to see my wife or girlfriend then on Saturday and I usually went on Saturday because we had classes until noon on Saturday.
You might later on in your four years, you might be able to manage to avoid Saturday classes, which I did I think maybe a time or two, but generally we're talking about Saturday hitchhiking.
But I caught this one ride and I think it went over here to about Hearn, somewhere over in that area.
And I got out and then I started hitchhiking there by myself and not having any immediate success and this big new Oldsmobile 98 stopped by and this guy picked me up and I was in the back seat and I could tell he'd been drinking some.
And he was gunning that Oldsmobile.
And I remember going through that blinking red light or yellow light down in Riesel, that little town of Riesel or Reagan, I forget which it is, up this side of Waco.
Got a blinking yellow light there.
And I remember going through that light and looked down and he was doing 95 miles an hour.
I thought, man, if I survive this, I'm going to be lucky.
But we made it.
He let me out in Waco.
I've had times when people would ask me to drive.
I thought that was interesting.
I've done that.
One time I was having, things were a little slow, and I caught a ride with a big old transport truck, one of these big gasoline transport trucks.
And I remember sitting up there with this driver.
It was rough and hot and all that, but, you know, it worked fine.
Most of them are very positive.
People enjoy talking to you.
They seem to respect what you're doing, who you are, and they just enjoy visiting with you.
Some of them really want to be helpful.
The worst hitchhiking stories I've heard are somebody drinking too much, and a couple times people said they thought...
some man was trying to put their arm around them a little too much, and they kind of slid away.
I never ran into that.
Nothing beyond that.
Did you ever, were you ever part of a crowd that filled a car?
Oh, yes.
I've been in with several.
You know, four or five, you know, just packed in there.
Oh, yes.
I've done that.
And there were certain places that gradually you learned
where the Aggie hitchhiking location was.
Is that right?
Mm-hmm.
But I remember hitchhiking back from Hamilton, which is up on Highway 36.
That's a road going on out west.
But late on Sunday evening, and you'd think it might be hard to catch a ride, but it seemed like it always worked.
Did you ever get stuck anywhere in the wee hours of night?
Never.
Okay.
Never got stuck overnight that I couldn't make it.
When you went home Christmas, what did you tell your folks about A&M that first year?
Well, I spoke to them in very positive terms.
I know that.
I didn't.
And you never thought about dropping out?
Never once thought about dropping out.
But they, you know, had heard enough.
Well, they knew something about A&M from other people, from the Pitsers that I mentioned earlier.
So they kinda knew what to expect, I think, but I didn't give them any bad stories.
They again were encouraging to me.
And was the Korean War, was it being interjected into your thinking?
Very much so, very much so.
The Korean War was really heating up, of course, in 1950, 52, 53, that was the period.
And, you know, we didn't know what was going to happen there.
You know, we still remembered World War II and, you know, we kind of expected this full mobilization.
you know, a total commitment.
And, you know, it's kind of shocking to us, some of us, that, hey, you know, everybody's not for this thing.
And so there were some surprises there.
But Korea certainly shaded our thinking.
And I saw people drafted out of A&M.
If you weren't in the Corps and you weren't making decent grades, two of my friends were drafted right out of school here for the Korean War.
later came back and got their degrees in engineering, but they were drafted.
My older brother, I mentioned, we came here together, and he would have been a junior, and he was in the Corps for a while.
And he'd had some asthma problems growing up, being around wheat and chaff and stuff.
Sometimes it would just choke him up.
And he got drafted.
He was ordered to Abilene, to the induction board,
Well, I better back up first.
He lost his contract within the first six weeks here at A&M because they looked at his medical record and found that he had all this asthma stuff.
And they said, sorry, you know, we can't give you a contract.
And, you know, broke his heart.
He'd been the Corps commander up in Tarleton when he was up there, you know, in his top year at Tarleton.
He was big time in this.
you know, he was just looking forward to being in the Corps here, but they bounced him out of the Corps.
And so he was a civilian.
Well, it wasn't too long.
I don't remember exactly the timing, but he was ordered for induction, and he went to Abilene, and he was on the bus to leave there, and they come on board and say, is there a Jim Darling around here?
Yeah, come here.
They called him back inside, and they said, say, we just
Looked at some other things here, and we think you're 4F.
We're not going to take you.
Go home.
Well, he'd already dropped out A&M, so he turned around and come back to A&M.
So he finishes as a civilian student.
But that says something about what was happening to people.
And, you know, I knew that when I finished A&M, I owed the military something.
I wanted to serve.
I didn't have any qualms about that.
And it seemed like the natural and normal thing to do.
But I was going to be a citizen soldier, meaning I do my thing and then I was going to be back to teach school or be a county agent or maybe coach or something like that.
So, you know, I was prepared for all that and, you know, but I stayed in school, ROTC, and they didn't take me because I was in ROTC and, I mean, I didn't get drafted or anything.
I don't know about any corps that was in good standing that got drafted, but if you, and we had a lot of civilian students here then, a good many, a lot of them are still World War II folks, but a good many folks did get drafted out of school and went to the war, but I,
Korean did end just before I graduated, and then they suddenly want to demobilize, and they don't want all these people in the Air Force.
In fact, a lot of my classmates did not get commissioned on graduation at A&M.
Air Force, because the Air Force had a big cutback coming, and they said, we don't need all these guys, so unless you're going to be a technical guy or you're going to be a pilot, we don't want you, and we're going to
We're not going to commission you.
We're going to give you four stripes.
And you come in the Air Force as a four striper.
And a good many of my friends that were not engineers and were not pilot qualified did end up in the Air Force's enlisted people.
Later, the Air Force did relent on that and did commission all these people.
But that was a pretty raw deal, I thought, for a lot of my friends that didn't qualify or didn't want to fly.
During that freshman year, talk about some of the campus personalities.
The president at A&M at that point?
David Morgan.
And then Dr. Harrington.
So Morgan was new by the time you got here.
Did you see him?
I remember seeing him.
You know, I knew he was president and all of that, but I didn't have any.
You all didn't have any impression of him?
what he was like or anything, I presume?
You know, he was a pretty impressive man.
I thought he was nice, handsome.
He looked like a president to me.
And, you know, what I observed, an 18-year-old kid, pretty naive, I was pretty impressed with him.
Now, I've read a lot of stuff.
since then as Commandant.
I know he did a big study there that was pretty condemning of the Corps.
Like, you know, there's got to be some changes and there's some pretty extensive stuff that he was involved in there toward the
latter part of the time I was here, but you know, I really didn't know anything about that at the time.
You know, as an innocent kid down there in the Corps, you don't know all those things.
Who was the Dean of Agriculture?
Oh, let's see, I can picture him.
A gray-haired fella, been here a long time.
Famous name in agriculture in Texas.
Warden Patterson?
No.
Okay.
Who was the Commandant?
Dean EJ, let's see, you know.
Well, the Commandant,
was General Boatner, Colonel Boatner.
Make believe I'd never heard of him before.
That's a good question.
Describe his personality.
What he seemed like to you students.
Well, I was scared to death of him.
I never met a man, I never saw a man that I was more afraid of than Colonel Boatner.
And, you know, cadets had had these run-ins with him on campus and other places, and I heard all these stories.
What a mean, ruthless,
guy you never want to encounter him and i remember one of the first things they teach us was taught us was how to salute and who to salute and all this sort of thing and and i was a little afraid to meet an officer that i'd have to salute that i might not do it just right so you know i kind of kept my eye out but one man i always tried to be on the alert for to be a block away was colonel boatner
Because I didn't want to encounter his wrath because I didn't salute riot or whatever.
I thought, you know, now say he'd do that, I don't know.
But that just kind of expresses my fear of him.
Physically, what was he like?
Well, I remember him as being a pretty well-built fellow.
I don't know that he was tall, but, you know, he seemed...
The picture I have of him is a fairly stocky man, but, you know, a pretty square jaw and full face and all that.
And I just remember him as being a tough man.
And, you know, a lot of it was probably spread by rumors that other students talk about, say, and, you know, it carries around and people.
But, you know, I've met a lot of other friends that have a similar view of Colonel Boatner, but he was our commandant my first year.
And then he goes to Korea before you graduate or after?
Oh, he goes to, he leaves after I think his one year or something like that after I'm here.
But Korean War is heated up and they need this tough guy over there and he goes over there and straights out the POW, the prisoner thing and, you know, makes national news.
What did you and your buddies think when you read that story?
Yep, that's him.
That's him.
He's a guy who can do that sort of thing.
Who succeeded him?
Well, it was Colonel Davis, I believe.
Colonel Joe Davis.
When I got here, he was nicknamed Fighting Joe.
Describe him.
Well, you know, I didn't have much dealings with him either.
I didn't, was never in his office.
But I, you know, thought he was, again, a role model.
I held him in high esteem from what I knew of him.
I thought he was pretty good.
I didn't have any
Any doubts about him, I'd give him very positive marks from what I knew and what I saw, which was very limited.
However, I know he stayed here a long time and retired, and I remember after I came here, I wondered what happened to Colonel Joe Davis, and Buck Henderson told me he's living up in Stephenville, and I wrote him a letter.
And I got a very nice letter back from him, and we had a little thing going there for a while.
And the commandant's officers were in the Trigon then?
I assume they were, but I never was in the Trigon.
And at that point, you weren't dreaming of a military career at all?
Not at all, not a military career.
Serving, yes, but never a career.
The ROTC had all those old World War II barracks and all down there kind of lined up in a row.
It was kind of a terrible looking area, but all our classes and everything were down there.
There was one Air Force officer that I remember very well, was a guy that I had a class under him here, a time or two, a major, Hubb Johnson.
He's an Aggie class of 41, I believe it is.
Hubb Johnson.
He was a non-rated officer, not a flyer.
But he taught Air Force ROTC, and I had a class or two under him, and I thought very highly of him.
Now, you were Air Force.
And by then, the Air Force was a separate branch.
Yes.
So it wasn't Army Air Corps.
No.
It was Air Force.
I'll come back to Hub Johnson in a moment, but I need to mention this one little story.
I said when I came to A&M, you know, I knew his military was going to wear an A&M uniform, and I thought that was all going to be pretty jazzy.
I liked that idea.
And I never thought about separate services here.
I just assumed it's Army.
I didn't know the difference.
And that first week I was here when we were doing that M processing and all the registering and all that, and I went through this one line that they were determining which ROTC you were going to be in.
And I don't even know what line I'm in.
I'm just in this line.
They tell us to get in this line.
We're going through here.
And I get up there and some guy in a uniform looks up at me and he says, son, you want Air Force or Army?
You know, I never knew I had a choice.
And I've told this story a few times that in 10 seconds it kind of rolled through my mind.
Air Force, airplanes, all that.
You know, crawling on your belly and doing that stuff.
I'll take Air Force.
In 10 seconds I told him
I would take Air Force, and it shaped the whole rest of my life.
There are decisions like that that you make sometimes.
It was not a well thought out decision, but I just, in 10 or 15 seconds, kind of had a mental vision of what the Air Force was, and I really didn't know that much.
I'd had one airplane ride in my life to that point.
Did you go back to the dorm that night and rethink it?
No.
Never, never questioned it.
And I don't question it until today.
But it was, again, one of those things that totally surprised me.
Again, I didn't even know we had Air Force ROTC.
I remember the Army Air Corps, but the Air Force became a separate service in 1947.
So, you know, this was 1950, so it's still a new thing.
But the Air Force was quite popular.
A lot of folks did get into it.
But we did have a little problem with commissioning in that because of the downsizing, a lot of them had to go in as four-stripers.
Two of the celebrity people that I always ask about, one is Mr. Cashin.
Was he still around?
Yes.
Describe him if you had any.
Well, you know, I can't remember too much.
I just remember that name and the Cashin, Jimmy Cashin had played football in the late 40s.
I used to see when I was growing up, still in high school, I would tune in that old radio to the A&M football game.
Sure.
And I could tell you all the players that played for A&M in those years.
Cash and Name was one that stuck with me.
But I remember the core, those yells in the background and old Kern Tips announcing these games.
There's never been anything like it since then, in my opinion.
A guy could really describe those things.
Got a good middle picture of you.
Oh, good.
But I could hear all of that, and I knew the Aggie football names, and I followed recruiting and all that, or who they signed up.
But Cashin name was one that I knew, and then
Red Cashin, I believe, is class of 53, if I remember.
I remember him.
He was over in the athletic dorm.
I say he's in the athletic dorm.
He was connected with athletics.
He may have been living locally then.
I don't know.
But it seemed like he was in the dorm.
But I saw Red around, and, you know, we visited.
But, you know, that's about— Red was a friendly guy back then.
I just— What about Colonel Indy?
Who?
Colonel Indy?
Andy Anderson?
Oh, Andy Anderson, yes, I remember him.
A very respected man, a very distinguished, gray-haired fellow.
Looks kinda like you, I think.
Or you look like him.
uh you know i heard lots of good things about colonel anderson i want to mention that hub johnson the major that i before i forget that if i may please uh you asked me about role models or military instructor and so forth but hub johnson was a fellow that i took some rtc classes on but he left here and he went back to the air force and did his thing and he made brigadier general
And he ended up over here in the Air Force Village in San Antonio.
When I came back to A&M in 87, he came over to A&M and visited because it was the Corps Center one year after we got that built.
And I had such a good reunion with Hub Johnson.
And I told him, you know, how he had helped shape my future in life and how I respected him.
And he had a very distinguished career.
But unfortunately, he died a couple years ago over there in Air Force Village.
But, you know, he was an Aggie.
And a lot of those instructors were not A&M people then.
But, you know, those are the names that I remember from ROTC.
As you go home at the end of that first year, you've made good grades.
How did you feel for that, at the end of that first year, going home for the summer?
I felt great.
I felt on top of the world.
and did you feel like you were headed in the direction that you'd hoped to go you had i felt very good about only thing a little unsettled where i'm going to play basketball or more or i need to get totally serious about school and i wanted to get involved in some other thing the basketball just ate all my time those practices were long and grueling and i gather the coach was not that warm
well you know i'm not saying he's not a good man it was just his philosophy and style and you know it's what he learned under hank iba and i remember one thing that had a rule no drinking of water during practice we'd go a whole practice without getting a drink of water and you know our mouths would just be cotton
Nowadays, they encourage you to drink water.
But, you know, a lot of us had played ball, and when we get together, we thought, man, you know, can you ever think that we couldn't get a drink of water?
You know, he wouldn't let us shoot a hook shot.
Every free throw had to be underhanded, on and on and on.
But, you know, he was a good man, but, again, we didn't appreciate his style.
We'd go see these other teams play, and they were doing all this new stuff and fancy stuff and, you know, not us.
Had you had some
some teachers already that also had an important role model effect on you?
End of the first year.
I had an agronomy professor, Mogford, somewhere in there.
I believe it was maybe the first or second year, but they called him Cotton Joe Mogford.
He was around here a long time.
You know, we respected him.
Oh, very much of him.
Now, almost everybody had a nickname then, didn't they?
Well, that's true.
A lot of them did.
Including students.
Did you have a nickname?
There were few people that...
knew me.
In some way, they'd linked it with my last name.
They called me Sweetheart.
Some of them did.
Sweetheart Darling?
Yeah, because they thought, you know, this is funny.
All the way from first grade on up, when I go to school, you know, the teacher calls a roll, and especially in the lower grades, even the high school, you know, people kind of look around and kind of snicker.
Something about the name.
They think it's a strange name, but in high school, some of my buddies sort of linked that together, and some of them that came on to A&M sort of
And there's a couple of guys if I meet today, that's probably what they'd call me, but you know, across the rank and file they didn't do that, but that's one name that... Now these nicknames particularly that students gave to faculty, those were not put downs, they were, were they?
No, I don't think so.
They were kind of terms of endearment, weren't they?
Acceptance?
I never thought of them as negative, in a negative way.
You know, there was a sociology professor.
I never had him, but I've heard a lot of people talk about it.
You probably know who I'm talking about, but I can't call the name right now.
Dr. Dan, the grade point man.
Yeah.
Dan Russell.
Now, I remember him.
He was a good man.
Did you ever question him?
I don't believe I did.
I don't believe I had him, but some of my classmates had him, and I remember him.
He was kind of a prominent person here at the time.
See, among his very, very, very important
contributions, he's the one that thought up the project houses.
That was his idea for those poor boys during the Depression.
All right, you go home.
What did you do that summer?
Well, I go to work immediately, working in the grain harvest, driving a tractor, pulling a combine.
Did y'all go on the road?
No, we mostly worked in the area there.
And we'd work up until probably July and we got all the grain cut.
And then we started breaking all the stubble land.
So, you know, it went right on until last day to head back to school.
But that's what I did those years.
Now, summer of 53, I went to ROTC summer camp.
But before I went out there, that was a year that the great drought sort of hit out there and there was no wheat, no grain to combine that year.
I mean, it was nothing.
And I thought, what am I going to do for a job?
And I couldn't find any place that seemed to need anybody because agriculture was zero that year.
It had great dust storms and all of that.
And I remember contacting somebody at the Abilene A&M Club, one of my friends.
And they said, Tom, we'll help you get a job.
And that's one thing that really impressed me.
Boy, these Aggies stick together.
You know, I knew they tried to help each other and all that.
I'd learned all that and heard stories about it.
But this was my first real visible example of that.
I needed a job in the worst way.
They did get me a job at the Central Texas Machinery Company there in Abilene.
It's a caterpillar dealer, and these old caterpillars, when these tracks, the bushings and pins wear out, and you can turn them over 180 degrees, and you can get another life out of them.
You push them out through this press and all that.
It's kind of a dangerous job pushing these things out of there, but anyway, I worked there the time that I had available.
There was an Aggie connected with that that helped get me in there.
So you come back for your sophomore year with a little more money in your pocket.
Well, enough to run me for a while.
And you felt confident that now you were headed in the right direction.
Anything different occur your sophomore year?
Anything change?
Well, you know, I'm a sophomore now, and, you know, I've got...
some right.
You're still in Hart Hall though.
Initially, yes.
But I said to myself as a freshman, if I ever get to be a sophomore or junior, I'm not going to be like some of these guys.
I don't think that's the right approach.
Some of them were just ruthless and crude and unreasonable, I thought.
And
I didn't believe in abusing people.
Had you had a paddle used on you as a freshman?
No.
Really?
Well, I had a broom.
Okay.
I've been hit with a broom, but I wouldn't call it serious or anything.
But, you know, I didn't see much of that stuff.
I heard sophomores ahead of me talking about, man, they put a notch on their...
desk chair for every lick they had.
You know, they had all these licks and all this stuff.
I frankly didn't see much of that firsthand.
But, you know, once in a while they'd hit you with a broom or something, but it was not the cruel and vicious kind that you hear stories about, but I didn't see that.
As a sophomore in the dining hall, life was a little less interrupted.
Yes.
And I was, that was, it was pleasant.
You know, I enjoyed being able to walk across campus without being harassed.
That, I really looked forward to that.
And I thought that was, that was one of the great opportunities.
Describe, now for the whole four years, describe the A&M student body in general.
Where were they from?
What were their attitudes, values, rich, poor?
Well, it seems like in those days, you know, I can't put a number on it, but there were a lot of students.
I'd say, you know, maybe half.